BigAnimal - Snapshot backups (#5763)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/biganimal/release/using_cluster/04_backup_and_restore.mdx

---
title: "Backing up and restoring"
deepToC: true
---

## Backups 

> BigAnimal backs up the data in your PostgreSQL clusters. You can change the retention period on the [Backups tab](../getting_started/creating_a_cluster/#additional-settings-tab) when you create or edit your cluster. Depending on the cloud your cluster is deployed on, BigAnimal uses either of the following cloud object storage solutions.

Author: The UI is not saying Barman backup so we can't say like that. I have given feedback to developers. If the UI changes we can document it that way

-    BigAnimal backs up the data in your PostgreSQL clusters using Barman. You can change the retention period on the [Backups tab](../getting_started/creating_a_cluster/#additional-settings-tab) when you create or edit your cluster. Depending on the cloud your cluster is deployed on, BigAnimal uses either of the following cloud object storage solutions.
  
    | Cloud        | Object storage solution                                                              | 
    |--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
    | AWS          | Amazon S3  (standard tier)                                                           |
    | Azure        | Azure Blob Storage (in the "hot" access tier with geo-zone-redundant storage (GZRS)) |
    | Google Cloud | Cloud Storage                                                                        |

    Your organization is responsible for the charges associated with the cloud object storage solution.

    You can change the retention period on the [Additional Settings tab](../getting_started/creating_a_cluster/#additional-settings-tab) when you create or edit your cluster. 
    

> -   Volume snapshots are the snapshot backups stored on disk in the same region as your cluster. Volume snapshots represents a snapshot of a volume on a storage system. Volume snapshots are very fast as compared to the backups using Barman. You can opt for volume snapshots from [Additional tab]((../getting_started/creating_a_cluster/#additional-settings-tab)) while creating and editing a cluster. Once you enable the volume snapshots, it captures the snapshot of a volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Volume snapshots are the snapshot backups stored on disk in the same region as your cluster. Volume snapshots represent a snapshot of a volume on a storage system. Volume snapshots are very fast as compared to the backups using Barman. You can opt for volume snapshots from [Additional tab]((../getting_started/creating_a_cluster/#additional-settings-tab)) while creating and editing a cluster. Once you enable the volume snapshots, it captures the snapshot of a volume.
```

#### Restore a single-node or primary/standby high-availability cluster

1.  Select the cluster you want to restore on the [Clusters](https://portal.biganimal.com/clusters) page in the [BigAnimal portal](https://portal.biganimal.com). 
1.  From **Quick Actions**, select **Restore**.
1.  On the Restore Cluster page: 
    1.  Fill in the required fields.

>     1.  To restore to the last possible recovery point, in the **Source** section, in the **Point in Time Restore** field, select **Now** on the calendar. Or, to restore further back in time, choose a timestamp. 

Reviewer: Just a nit, I would add where to find the source section and maybe split into two steps: 
```suggestion
    1.  In the **Cluster settings** tab, go to the **Source** section.
    1. To restore to the last possible recovery point, in the **Point in Time Restore** field, select **Now**. Or, to restore further back in time, choose a timestamp. 
```

          - you are restoring the cluster in the different region from your source cluster, then BigAnimal chooses the base backup for restore over volume snapshots.
1.  The new cluster is now available on the [Clusters](https://portal.biganimal.com/clusters) page.

#### Restore a distributed high-availability cluster

1. On the [Clusters](https://portal.biganimal.com/clusters) page in the [BigAnimal portal](https://portal.biganimal.com), select the cluster you want to restore.
1. Select **Quick Actions > Restore**.
1. In the **Cluster Settings** tab, enter a cluster name and password for your restored cluster. 
1. Select **Next: Data Group**. 
1. Select the **Node Settings** tab. 
1. In the **Source** section, select **Fully Restore** or **Point in Time Restore**. A point-in-time restore restores the data group as it was at the specified date and time. 
1. In the **Nodes** section, select **Two Data Nodes** or **Three Data Nodes**. For more information on node architecture, see [Distributed high availability](/biganimal/latest/overview/02_high_availability/distributed_highavailability/).

> 1. Follow Steps 3-5 in [Creating a distributed high-availability cluster](../getting_started/creating_a_cluster/creating_a_dha_cluster/). 

Reviewer: Seems like this page was a single flow before, and now it is split into sections. So maybe instead of painting to steps 3-5 we can point to a heading?
